
libdbi-drivers - drivers for libdbi, the Database
Independent Abstraction Layer for C

Copyright (C) 2001-2002, Markus Hoenicka <markus at mhoenicka.de>
http://libdbi-drivers.sourceforge.net


SQLITE3 DRIVER:
--------------

A driver implementing an embedded SQL engine using libsqlite3
(http://www.sqlite.org)
   


NOTES:
------

The sqlite3 driver ignores the host, port, username, and
password options completely as the sqlite3 access control works
entirely over the filesystem. If you're allowed to run an application
linked against libdbi and if the sqlite3 driver can be loaded from your
account, you have access to the "database server". If the file
containing the sqlite3 database is read/writable from your account, you
have read/write access to that database.

The sqlite3 driver uses two driver-specific options:

- In order to make the operation as a libdbi driver feasible, you have
  to assign one directory of your filesystem as the sqlite3 data
  directory by setting the "sqlite3_dbdir" option appropriately. The
  driver will look for existing databases in this directory and it will
  create new databases in the very same directory.

- SQLite3 can be operated in UTF-8 or UTF-16 mode. This distinction is
  a little confusing as it doesn't mean that your data have to be either
  UTF-8 or UTF-16. Rather think of UTF-8 as "everything but
  UTF-16". UTF-16 means that you have to provide the filename of the
  database as an UTF-16 string, and that the data have to be supplied
  and will be stored as UTF-16 if you use this option when first opening
  a database. If you use UTF-8 instead (the default), you can use just
  about any character encoding that you like, including e.g. ISO-8859-1
  and of course UTF-8, as long as it is *NOT* UTF-16. In UTF-8 mode,
  collation will be as if the data were UTF-8, and libdbi currently
  does not allow to specify custom collations. To select either
  encoding, set "sqlite3_encoding" to "UTF-8" or "UTF-16". If all this
  sounds too confusing to you, don't use this option and provide your
  data as UTF-8. It is going to work.



CONTACT INFO:
-------------

libdbi-drivers-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
http://libdbi-drivers.sourceforge.net
Markus Hoenicka <mhoenicka@users.sourceforge.net>

$Id$

